---
title: '`pandoc.mediabag`'
---

```{=comment}
This is an autogenerated file. Do not edit it directly.
```


## `delete`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.delete(filepath: string)
```

Removes a single entry from the media bag.



## `empty`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.empty()
```

Clear-out the media bag, deleting all items.



## `fetch`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.fetch(source: string)
  -> string|nil
  2. string|nil
```

Fetches the given source from a URL or local file. Returns two
values: the contents of the file and the MIME type (or an empty
string).

The function will first try to retrieve `source` from the
mediabag; if that fails, it will try to download it or read it
from the local file system while respecting pandoc's "resource
path" setting.

Returns:

-   the entries MIME type, or nil if the file was not found.
-   contents of the file, or nil if the file was not found.

Usage:

    local diagram_url = "https://pandoc.org/diagram.jpg"
    local mt, contents = pandoc.mediabag.fetch(diagram_url)



## `fill`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.fill(doc: pandoc.Pandoc)
  -> pandoc.Pandoc
```

Fills the mediabag with the images in the given document. An
image that cannot be retrieved will be replaced with a Span of
class "image" that contains the image description.

Images for which the mediabag already contains an item will
not be processed again.



## `insert`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.insert(filepath: string, mime_type: string|nil, contents: string)
```

Adds a new entry to pandoc's media bag. Replaces any existing
mediabag entry with the same `filepath`.

Usage:

    local fp = "media/hello.txt"
    local mt = "text/plain"
    local contents = "Hello, World!"
    pandoc.mediabag.insert(fp, mt, contents)



## `items`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.items()
  -> function
  2. unknown
  3. unknown
```

Returns an iterator triple to be used with Lua's generic `for`
statement. The iterator returns the filepath, MIME type, and
content of a media bag item on each invocation. Items are
processed one-by-one to avoid excessive memory use.

This function should be used only when full access to all items,
including their contents, is required. For all other cases,
`list` should be preferred.

Returns:

-   The iterator function; must be called with the iterator
    state and the current iterator value.
-   Iterator state -- an opaque value to be passed to the
    iterator function.
-   Initial iterator value.

Usage:

    for fp, mt, contents in pandoc.mediabag.items() do
      -- print(fp, mt, contents)
    end



## `list`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.list()
  -> { path: string, type: string, length: integer }[]
```

Get a summary of the current media bag contents.

Returns: A list of elements summarizing each entry in the media
bag. The summary item contains the keys `path`, `type`, and
`length`, giving the filepath, MIME type, and length of contents
in bytes, respectively.

Usage:

    -- calculate the size of the media bag.
    local mb_items = pandoc.mediabag.list()
    local sum = 0
    for i = 1, #mb_items do
        sum = sum + mb_items[i].length
    end
    print(sum)



## `lookup`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.lookup(filepath: string)
  -> string|nil
  2. string|nil
```

Lookup a media item in the media bag, and return its MIME type
and contents.

Returns:

-   the entry's MIME type, or nil if the file was not found.
-   contents of the file, or nil if the file was not found.

Usage:

    local filename = "media/diagram.png"
    local mt, contents = pandoc.mediabag.lookup(filename)



## `write`

```
function pandoc.mediabag.write(dir: any, fp: any)
```

Writes the contents of mediabag to the given target directory. If
`fp` is given, then only the resource with the given name will be
extracted. Omitting that parameter means that the whole mediabag
gets extracted. An error is thrown if `fp` is given but cannot be
found in the mediabag.

