---
title: '`pandoc.path`'
---

```{=comment}
This is an autogenerated file. Do not edit it directly.
```


## `directory`

```
function pandoc.path.directory(filepath: string)
  -> string
```

Gets the directory name, i.e., removes the last directory
separator and everything after from the given path.



## `filename`

```
function pandoc.path.filename(filepath: string)
  -> string
```

Get the file name.



## `is_absolute`

```
function pandoc.path.is_absolute(filepath: string)
  -> boolean
```

Checks whether a path is absolute, i.e. not fixed to a root.



## `is_relative`

```
function pandoc.path.is_relative(filepath: string)
  -> boolean
```

Checks whether a path is relative or fixed to a root.



## `join`

```
function pandoc.path.join(filepaths: table)
  -> string
```

Join path elements back together by the directory separator.



## `make_relative`

```
function pandoc.path.make_relative(path: string, root: string, unsafe?: boolean)
  -> string
```

Contract a filename, based on a relative path. Note that the
resulting path will usually not introduce `..` paths, as the
presence of symlinks means `../b` may not reach `a/b` if it starts
from `a/c`. For a worked example see [this blog
post](https://neilmitchell.blogspot.co.uk/2015/10/filepaths-are-subtle-symlinks-are-hard.html).



## `normalize`

```
function pandoc.path.normalize(filepath: string)
  -> string
```

Normalizes a path.

-   `//` makes sense only as part of a (Windows) network drive;
    elsewhere, multiple slashes are reduced to a single
    `path.separator` (platform dependent).
-   `/` becomes `path.separator` (platform dependent)
-   `./` -\> ''
-   an empty path becomes `.`



## `search_path_separator`

```
string
```

The character that is used to separate the entries in the `PATH`
environment variable.



## `separator`

```
string
```

The character that separates directories.



## `split`

```
function pandoc.path.split(filepath: string)
  -> table
```

Splits a path by the directory separator.



## `split_extension`

```
function pandoc.path.split_extension(filepath: string)
  -> string
  2. string
```

Splits the last extension from a file path and returns the parts. The
extension, if present, includes the leading separator; if the path has
no extension, then the empty string is returned as the extension.

Returns:

-   filepath without extension (string)
-   extension or empty string (string)



## `split_search_path`

```
function pandoc.path.split_search_path(search_path: string)
  -> table
```

Takes a string and splits it on the `search_path_separator` character.
Blank items are ignored on Windows, and converted to `.` on Posix. On
Windows path elements are stripped of quotes.

