---
title: '`pandoc.structure`'
---

```{=comment}
This is an autogenerated file. Do not edit it directly.
```


## `make_sections`

```
function pandoc.structure.make_sections(blocks: pandoc.Blocks, opts?: table)
  -> pandoc.Blocks[]
```


Puts [Blocks](file:///Users/cscheid/repos/github/quarto-dev/quarto-cli/src/resources/lua-types/pandoc/%23type-blocks) into a hierarchical structure: a list of
sections (each a Div with class "section" and first element a Header).

The optional `opts` argument can be a table; two settings are
recognized: If `number_sections` is true, a `number` attribute
containing the section number will be added to each `Header`. If
`base_level` is an integer, then `Header` levels will be reorganized so
that there are no gaps, with numbering levels shifted by the given
value. Finally, an integer `slide_level` value triggers the creation of
slides at that heading level.

Note that a [WriterOptions](file:///Users/cscheid/repos/github/quarto-dev/quarto-cli/src/resources/lua-types/pandoc/%23type-writeroptions) object can be passed as
the opts table; this will set the `number_section` and `slide_level`
values to those defined on the command line.

Usage:

    local blocks = {
      pandoc.Header(2, pandoc.Str 'first'),
      pandoc.Header(2, pandoc.Str 'second'),
    }
    local opts = PANDOC_WRITER_OPTIONS
    local newblocks = pandoc.structure.make_sections(blocks, opts)




## `slide_level`

```
function pandoc.structure.slide_level(blocks: pandoc.Blocks|pandoc.Pandoc)
  -> integer
```

Find level of header that starts slides (defined as the least header
level that occurs before a non-header/non-hrule in the blocks).



## `split_into_chunks`

```
function pandoc.structure.split_into_chunks(doc: pandoc.Pandoc, opts?: { path_template: string, number_sections: boolean, chunk_level: integer, base_heading_level: integer|nil })
  -> pandoc.ChunkedDoc
```

Converts a [Pandoc](file:///Users/cscheid/repos/github/quarto-dev/quarto-cli/src/resources/lua-types/pandoc/%23type-pandoc) document into a
[ChunkedDoc](file:///Users/cscheid/repos/github/quarto-dev/quarto-cli/src/resources/lua-types/pandoc/%23type-chunkeddoc).

The following option fields are supported:

    `path_template`
    :   template used to generate the chunks' filepaths
        `%n` will be replaced with the chunk number (padded with
        leading 0s to 3 digits), `%s` with the section number of
        the heading, `%h` with the (stringified) heading text,
        `%i` with the section identifier. For example,
        `"section-%s-%i.html"` might be resolved to
        `"section-1.2-introduction.html"`.

        Default is `"chunk-%n"` (string)

    `number_sections`
    :   whether sections should be numbered; default is `false`
        (boolean)

    `chunk_level`
    :   The heading level the document should be split into
        chunks. The default is to split at the top-level, i.e.,
        `1`. (integer)

    `base_heading_level`
    :   The base level to be used for numbering. Default is `nil`
        (integer|nil)



## `table_of_contents`

```
function pandoc.structure.table_of_contents(toc_source: pandoc.Blocks|pandoc.ChunkedDoc|pandoc.Pandoc, opts?: pandoc.WriterOptions)
  -> pandoc.Block
```

Generates a table of contents for the given object.

