---
title: '`pandoc.utils`'
---

```{=comment}
This is an autogenerated file. Do not edit it directly.
```


## `blocks_to_inlines`

```
function pandoc.utils.blocks_to_inlines(blocks: pandoc.List, sep?: pandoc.Inlines)
  -> pandoc.Inlines
```

Squash a list of blocks into a list of inlines.

Usage:

    local blocks = {
      pandoc.Para{ pandoc.Str 'Paragraph1' },
      pandoc.Para{ pandoc.Emph 'Paragraph2' }
    }
    local inlines = pandoc.utils.blocks_to_inlines(blocks)
    -- inlines = {
    --   pandoc.Str 'Paragraph1',
    --   pandoc.Space(), pandoc.Str'¶', pandoc.Space(),
    --   pandoc.Emph{ pandoc.Str 'Paragraph2' }
    -- }



## `citeproc`

```
function pandoc.utils.citeproc(doc: pandoc.Pandoc)
  -> pandoc.Pandoc
```

Process the citations in the file, replacing them with rendered
citations and adding a bibliography. See the manual section on
citation rendering for details.

Usage:

    -- Lua filter that behaves like `--citeproc`
    function Pandoc (doc)
      return pandoc.utils.citeproc(doc)
    end



## `equals`

```
function pandoc.utils.equals(element1: any, element2: any)
  -> boolean
```

Test equality of AST elements. Elements in Lua are considered
equal if and only if the objects obtained by unmarshaling are
equal.

**This function is deprecated.** Use the normal Lua `==` equality
operator instead.



## `from_simple_table`

```
function pandoc.utils.from_simple_table(table: pandoc.SimpleTable)
  -> pandoc.Table
```

Creates a `Table` block element from a `SimpleTable`. This is
useful for dealing with legacy code which was written for pandoc
versions older than 2.10.

-- Usage:

    local simple = pandoc.SimpleTable(table)
    -- modify, using pre pandoc 2.10 methods
    simple.caption = pandoc.SmallCaps(simple.caption)
    -- create normal table block again
    table = pandoc.utils.from_simple_table(simple)



## `make_sections`

```
function pandoc.utils.make_sections(number_sections: boolean, base_level: integer|nil, blocks: any)
  -> pandoc.Blocks
```

Converts list of `Block` elements into sections.
`Div`s will be created beginning at each `Header`
and containing following content until the next `Header`
of comparable level.  If `number_sections` is true,
a `number` attribute will be added to each `Header`
containing the section number. If `base_level` is
non-null, `Header` levels will be reorganized so
that there are no gaps, and so that the base level
is the level specified.

**Deprecated** Use `pandoc.structure.make_sections` instead.



## `normalize_date`

```
function pandoc.utils.normalize_date(date_string: string)
  -> string|nil
```

Parse a date and convert (if possible) to "YYYY-MM-DD" format.
We limit years to the range 1601-9999 (ISO 8601 accepts greater
than or equal to 1583, but MS Word only accepts dates starting
1601).



## `references`

```
function pandoc.utils.references(doc: pandoc.Pandoc)
  -> table
```

Get references defined inline in the metadata and via an external
bibliography. Only references that are actually cited in the
document (either with a genuine citation or with `nocite`) are
returned. URL variables are converted to links.

The structure used represent reference values corresponds to that
used in CSL JSON; the return value can be use as `references`
metadata, which is one of the values used by pandoc and citeproc
when generating bibliographies.

Usage:

    -- Include all cited references in document
    function Pandoc (doc)
      doc.meta.references = pandoc.utils.references(doc)
      doc.meta.bibliography = nil
      return doc
    end



## `run_json_filter`

```
function pandoc.utils.run_json_filter(doc: pandoc.Pandoc, filter: string, args?: table)
```

Filter the given doc by passing it through the a JSON filter.

Usage:

    -- Assumes `some_blocks` contains blocks for which a
    -- separate literature section is required.
    local sub_doc = pandoc.Pandoc(some_blocks, metadata)
    sub_doc_with_bib = pandoc.utils.run_json_filter(
      sub_doc,
      'pandoc-citeproc'
    )
    some_blocks = sub_doc.blocks -- some blocks with bib



## `run_lua_filter`

```
function pandoc.utils.run_lua_filter(doc: pandoc.Pandoc, filter: table)
```

Filter the given doc by passing it through a Lua filter.



## `sha1`

```
function pandoc.utils.sha1(contents: string)
  -> string
```

Returns the SHA1 has of the contents.

Usage:

    local fp = pandoc.utils.sha1("foobar")



## `stringify`

```
function pandoc.utils.stringify(element: any)
  -> string
```

Converts the given element (Pandoc, Meta, Block, or Inline) into
a string with all formatting removed.

Usage:

    local inline = pandoc.Emph{pandoc.Str 'Moin'}
    -- outputs "Moin"
    print(pandoc.utils.stringify(inline))



## `to_roman_numeral`

```
function pandoc.utils.to_roman_numeral(value: integer)
  -> string
```

Converts an integer < 4000 to uppercase roman numeral.



## `to_simple_table`

```
function pandoc.utils.to_simple_table(table: pandoc.Table)
  -> pandoc.SimpleTable
```

Creates a `SimpleTable` out of a `Table` block.

Usage:

    local simple = pandoc.utils.to_simple_table(table)
    -- modify, using pre pandoc 2.10 methods
    simple.caption = pandoc.SmallCaps(simple.caption)
    -- create normal table block again
    table = pandoc.utils.from_simple_table(simple)



## `type`

```
function pandoc.utils.type(value: any)
  -> string
```

Pandoc-friendly version of Lua's default `type` function,
returning the type of a value. This function works with all types
listed in section [Lua type reference][], except if noted
otherwise.

The function works by checking the metafield `__name`. If the
argument has a string-valued metafield `__name`, then it returns
that string. Otherwise it behaves just like the normal `type`
function.

Usage:

    -- Prints one of 'string', 'boolean', 'Inlines', 'Blocks',
    -- 'table', and 'nil', corresponding to the Haskell constructors
    -- MetaString, MetaBool, MetaInlines, MetaBlocks, MetaMap,
    -- and an unset value, respectively.
    function Meta (meta)
      print('type of metavalue `author`:', pandoc.utils.type(meta.author))
    end

